Curtis McClelland
Manning
CSEE 2210
19 April 2019
Personal Role Report
        	Together, John Watson and I have come together to create “A Better Ear” for students in the classroom. The purpose of “A Better Ear” is to help those who have hearing impairments or ADHD and cannot hear or focus on lectures in class. It is also meant to help teachers in regard to hearing the questions of students in large lecture halls. During the course of this project, John served more as a background research and generic implementation director, and I served as the test engineer, designing and running experiments based off of John’s research.
        	I took our idea from the roots and decided to find a way to implement the concept with actual hardware and software solutions. The main issues we faced were those of attempting to find a system wherein audio would be recorded appropriately, ignoring physical objects that could block recorded sound. Additionally, we needed a microphone with recording software in order to conduct our tests. The microphone we decided on was the Samson – Go Mic Portable USB Microphone with Software. The Software included was AudioDesk 5.0. This application allowed us to record audio clips and play them back. These audio clips could then be fed into some sort of transcription service, such as Transcribe, which has been used by several renowned programs, including The Guardian, NPR, and TED. These transcriptions and recorded audio could be distributed to students who are hard of hearing concurrently or post lecture, in order to allow them to review the same material multiple times, thus allowing them to have the same absorption opportunities as students without disabilities.
        	After figuring out the hardware, software, and logistics of the tests for this project, I proceeded to test the actual audible range and usefulness of our mic setup. I organized a total of 12 tests, run twice and averaged, that would demonstrate decibel pickup increases and overall usefulness of a microphone system. I decided there were 12 specific solutions to our problem that could be presented. I devised several different location tests to determine what ranges were optimal for audio pickup.
        	The first set of tests were engineered for the purpose of improving the Teacher experience. First, we tested the decibel pickup of a student asking a question with the mic at 0 meters and the student at 10 and 20 meters away. Then we tested the microphone being at 10 meters, with the student at either 10 meters or 20 meters. Finally, we tested the microphone at 20 meters and students at 10 meters and 20 meters away. The measurements were all given value as a distance from the teacher’s desk.
        	I then proceeded to setup my laptop at different ranges with the microphone attached, using the AudioDesk program to measure the decibel pickup. I would have John behave as the student in this situation, and I would look at the laptop to record what decibel value remained constant while they spoke. We would run each test twice and average the decibel values for higher accuracy. By interpreting this data, we could see which microphone location provided for the best overall pickup of student audio in a lecture hall setting.
        	Second, we tested different mic locations for pickup of teacher lectures, in order to demonstrate how a microphone being on the professor’s desk greatly improved the volume of the lecture that students could hear, either in a recording or concurrently as the lecture progressed. We tested the microphone being at 0 meters with the teacher facing the classroom and facing away, 10 meters with the teacher facing the classroom and facing away, and 20 meters with the teacher facing the classroom and facing away. I recorded these decibel pickups and created an excel spreadsheet to demonstrate how much of an improvement the microphone placement was in regards for recording audio. I can then interpret this information in order to show that having a microphone system is a significant improvement for students than not having one. 

