Curtis McClelland
Manning
CSEE 2210
21 April 2019
Teammate Role Report Analysis: John Watson
        	For this project, John was an integral part of our team. He served as the generic concept idea man and played a vast part of our brainstorming in regard to what product we would create on our way to creating “A Better Ear.” I would consider John to be the overall head of research and background information for this project. He did a fantastic job consolidating our information and creating a simple task list that we needed in order to stay on top of things. John was integral in our decision to make an audio pickup system, as he experienced a consistent issue in our shared Discrete Mathematics course wherein the teacher consistently couldn’t hear his questions, and he consistently couldn’t hear bits of her lecture. The lecture hall in particular is large, and has a lot of absorbent material present in the classroom that inhibits the ability of students to hear the professor. From this issue, John was able to perceive how much harder it would be for a student with disabilities to hear the professor, and our idea was born.
        	John did extensive research in regard to the shape of a room, the acoustic patterns of sound waves, and how this might affect our experiment. He was able to determine that we would encounter some issues in regard to the absorbent materials in the room, and that this probably factored into why we had issues hearing the professor in the first place. He also determined that as long as our microphone was placed equidistant from each side of the room, we would have an accurate experiment, as the room is reasonably symmetrical.
        	John did much when it came to explaining and detailing the uses and implementation of our software and hardware. He delved into several different solutions that the system could provide and explained them in depth. John explored the possibility of implementing earpieces for the students to be able to hear the lecture concurrently, or as it went on, and he also looked into a system with an interactive app or device that could help the student or professor pick a certain mode that would allow for different functionality. This application could include features such as speech to text, text to speech, audio playback, projection of audio, and even a buzzer that could inform the professor that a student had a question.
        	John was instrumental when testing the product. I would inform him of the tests that we needed to accomplish, we met up on time for a scheduled period, and were able to quickly and constructively finish our recording of information and video recording for the sake of the demonstration video that we are required to complete. He served as the student and the teacher in several tests in order to give us example audio to use for recording decibel input for the microphone at different ranges and different setups.
        	Finally, John explained how our project will be able to be improved upon after this semester. There are many different ways that different features could be added to our system, if there was more time and greater funding. For example, there is the potential for more microphones to be created, for the application to be mutated in order to implement concepts such as TurningPoint, an interactive classroom application that allows for polling of students. In essence, there are ways that our product could be expanded past the realm of handling disabilities, and extend into improving overall classroom environment. John did an excellent job of brainstorming and presenting these in a concise and detailed manner.
