Engineering Assessment Report (for Curtis)
Curtis played an integral role in the development of “A Better Ear”. He was in charge of the logistics of the microphone tests and had many positive ideas on the development of the presentation. He was able to use a decibel meter to measure the distances from the microphone along with their respective amount of sound. This was very helpful for me being able to write about sound drop off. This also allowed me to continue to research sound in the classroom and learn more about what types of materials and microphone placement will allow ADHD students to prosper. At the end of the day he exemplified the idea that both of us declared for the project. This idea was to design a system that allows a student with ADHD to get the same classroom experience as any other student.
        	He was also critical in the initial research into the two different types of ADHD. Before this project began, I did not realize that the disorder was divided into two groups. I was able to learn information and cues into the lives of people with ADHD and at the end of the day it is the thing that I am most happy to have learned. Curtis explained that there are many differences between inattentive ADHD and hyperactive-compulsive. Now that I have the research behind me, I can begin to identify the cues in my day-to-day life and do a better job to help a student with this disorder.
        	Another positive that our group had was organization. About the midway point in the project we decided to make a google slides presentation, which was a large boost to our ability to complete our goal. We were able to put in hours without being together the whole time, and this fit our tight schedules much better. We were able to post links at the end of the presentation for the other member to use in their research. Curtis was able to provide more than one extremely powerful sources for me to continue my search for information.
        	There is nothing more important to a successful group than communication and Curtis and I did very well presenting our ideas. He was honest with his opinions on my information and I hope he did not expect anything less from me on my comments. We have continued to concentrate on pushing the project forward towards reach goals because it is important to us to see out the project the best we can. Both of us contributed to ideas in the presentation now and future ideas such as speech-to-text and text-to-speech programs so that students can get more help after class. These systems may also help students’ studying habits if they are able to get text versions of lectures so they can reread them. Curtis was an important part in the development of these ideas.
        	In the making of the video, Curtis played a very valuable role again. Not only did he begin by setting up the parameters of the task at hand (such as setting up distances from the mic or front of the classroom), but he was able to feed the voice output from the different areas into the microphone and measure the decibel level at any given time with the meter on his CPU. We were able to use this to have accurate decibel readings that ultimately decided how our data would look when we finished the project.
        	Finally, Curtis was the man in charge of video editing. He chopped up many clips to fuse together the make the video, adding pauses and words when necessary. I was able to record an introduction for the clip, but Curtis put that part in the video along with all the data from the trails of the microphone in our classroom. I would have been unable to complete this project without him.
