Role Report Engineering (John)
My role in the creation of “A Better Ear” spanned across every dimension of this project. Being in a group of two people increased the workload dramatically for both Curtis and I. My first contribution to the project was the prototype delivery. I was able to come up with the idea that a larger number of microphones must be present for the system to be successful. I contacted my professor about what should go into the project version of our system and was able to determine we only really need one for the demonstration. I was also able to do research on sound and sound travel and combined these ideas with the goal of the system. I determined that larger panels of wood with cloth should be put on the walls to ensure sound dampening and to combat reverberation. It was extremely interesting learning about how sound impacts the classroom setting, the professor and especially the students. Students learning is not only impacted by sound but a classroom with well-tuned sound can enrich a student’s learning and shift their perspective on the material they are learning.
        	The next department of the project that I had an impact on was the communication between teammates and between the group and the professor. I contacted Curtis whenever I had an issue, learned about the issues that he was having and wrapped them up into a video call or an email to the professor. Communication between students and professors, especially in a class setting like the one presented to me, is crucial to the success of the project. I would have been unable to submit the correct information without contacting the professor and am thankful to get information about the project when I needed it.
        	The “A Better Ear” system has a goal to help students with ADHD thrive in the classroom, and my work that I have submitted is proof that I am dedicated to its success. After the project is completed and submitted, the scope of the project can be expanded. I was able to make a basic idea of what the project in the future can becme. The basic setup for the system plants speakers at different areas of the classroom that are hooked up to the teacher’s microphone. It is estimated that a percentage of students with ADHD cannot concentrate because they cannot fully understand the material. My research into sound delved into reducing negative noise and project useful sound. When a teacher or professor speaks too quietly or is too far away from a student, this significantly hinders their ability to gain the material being taught. I know myself that it is extremely difficult to pay attention in a class where I am unable to hear correctly. Students with ADHD should not have to suffer through this and deserve the same rights for schooling as the next child. Sound in the classroom is the medium for student development, so we must do everything we can to make sure students receive quality sound.
        	The video submitted with the project deals with Curtis and I’s joint effort to explain what exactly the system performs. In the video I explain what aspects of the classroom are designed well versus the parts that could use improvement. In the video, the viewer will also see the sound drop-off with the demo microphone. I am hopeful that after viewing the video that viewers start to understand the difficulties of a student with ADHD in the classroom due to the inefficiency of classroom sound and the inability of lectors projecting their voice in an appropriate way. Through the system of “A Better Ear”, every student will be able to receive a top-class education.

